# Emotion-Classification
Research for CVPR2023
Title:Toward Accurate Prediction of Emotion Evoked by Visual Arts:\\ Learning Language Explanation Leads to Higher Accuracy.
Author: Li Rui,Masanori Suganuma,Takayuki Okatani

Abstract:Predicting emotion evoked by visual arts is still an open problem, while recent deep learning has achieved remarkable success in many fields. The difficulty comes from the fact that it requires understanding much broader and more complex visual concepts than standard object recognition. Thus, learning to predict emotion directly on emotion labels leads to an unsatisfactory result. To tackle this problem, we utilize a recent pre-training paradigm based on image-text pairs and a large-scale dataset of art paintings. Specifically, we consider four different methods based on image-text contrastive learning and conduct experiments to examine the best way to predict emotion evoked by visual arts. The experimental results show that updating the image/text encoders with image-text contrastive learning using the provided text descriptions in the art dataset and then performing image-text similarity-based classification achieves the best classification accuracy. Surprisingly, a method additionally fine-tuned with emotion labels after image-text contrastive learning is inferior to that with image-text similarity-based classification by a large margin. We also consider several possibilities for this phenomenon and conduct experiments to verify them in this paper.
